# Mindset to action

Going through our days is an amazing thing that we have been often used to endure, rather than to master. The first reason is probably our education. Authority at home has ruled over arguments, debates and constructive conflicts in most families. The relationship between kids and parents has remained top-down over the years, a situation in which parents give order and show direction with actually very few inputs or opinions from their children most of the time. Same goes with school. In an attempt to keep things order in classes of twenty to thirty kids, consensus and compromises are predominant. We ask children not to get into arguments as they haven’t learnt yet how to deal with them in a constructive, ordered and quiet manner. Yet, we don’t teach them how to. Instead, they are forced into situations in which they don’t get to decide and whenever a choice must be made, they learn to give up things in exchange of others so compromises can be quickly reached. As this was not enough, school provides strong and defining standards that can be frustrating, breaking and unfulfilling for many kids. In an absolute educational aberration, conformity pushes kids to embrace slow, limited and unfulfilling actions instead of nurturing their qualities so they can find a suitable place in this world.

Kids are singular individuals growing up at very different pace, and moreover in different directions, whether they develop their motricity, their understanding of situation or their communication skills for instance. In early classes, most schools develop standard programs for all the children to fit within a group as a whole. It’s how society has learnt to work and progress, in bulk. In order to limit the proportion of lost sheep, we keep a slow pace and develop courses that everyone should be able to follow. We even tend to slightly lower the level of difficulty. It’s certainly not a bad thing at a young age but it persists over the years, pushing the kids not only to annihilate their singularities but also to follow a standard flow that encourages an average and slow progression. This naturally follows us as we get into university or business school and even more when we jump into the business world.

Mechanically, we just follow the path that has been ours for the couple of decades that preceded the beginning of our career. Standardization seems like the right way of doing things, finding consensus and looking for compromise look like the best and normal way to handle any kind of situation. When it comes to efficiency, performance or making things happen, it’s easy to notice that long assignments and slow realisation usually win over quick decisions and actions. What some people don’t realize, it’s how impactful this lack of accountability is for our mindset and sense of accomplishment, something that by default should be rewarding and supports our self development. It’s truly devastating for the individuals that we are.

We just go through our days instead of mastering them, we encourage inertia instead of driving movement and moreover we don’t experience the satisfaction of stimulating our brain, our emotion, our ability to take actions and make things move. Our fear of failing, of showing our vulnerabilities, of not being up to the tasks we have been assigned to, of being less effective than our colleagues, all those things are holding us back.

It’s time to gain a better control of our fate,  
to surround yourself with the right people,  
to take fulfilling decisions.

The most challenging way is to let our mindset be the cause of our actions. It’s difficult because it requires a fair does of self-discipline into overcoming our resistances, something that most of us are not naturally ready for nor capable of. Another way if to go throughout mechanical adaptations, to find the techniques, methods and ways around ourselves in order to drive the changes we want to make. This is how I deal with myself and how I anticipate you will succeed into finding a better balance in your life.

**That is the goal of the second part of this book: Action.**

